
## Description of Siemens scripts

The scripts initially checked into this repository leverage Siemens' "real-time
data export" feature, enabling DICOM files to be written to a local or network
volume, as they are reconstructed and become available on the console.  To turn
this feature on, please reach out to your Siemens research contact to obtain
instructions as to how to do this.

When activating this feature, the console is configured to write DICOM image
data to a specified location, while simultaneously sending messages via TCP to
a specified IP address and port.  The location and IP can be local to the
scanner console, or remote to the console, but accessible from it.  For
example, on FMRIF's scanners, the scanner is configured to export DICOM data
to a network Samba share, exported from a linux computer, and mounted locally
at:

   V:\DICOM

on the scanner's console computer.

The same linux computer is also configured to listen to the messages sent via
TCP by the console, telling what state the scanner is in.

For images to be written to a specified volume, a listener **must** be running
on the specified IP address and network port.  This is accomplished with the
"dcm_listener_RT.py" script in this repository. Initial implementations of this
scripts had the messages about the scanner state output to a file on disk.  The
implementation at the time this was written has the messages written to a FIFO
buffer, which can be accessed via the "tail" command like a file on disk being
appended to.

The messages sent to the listener indicate when data acquisition has started,
the name of the DICOM image files written out to disk, and when acquisition has
stopped.  Note that because of the asynchronous nature of image reconstruction
versus data acquisition, it is possible for reconstruction to continue, images
written to disk, etc, **after** an acquisition ended message has been received.

This script is launched via the "listener_image_start" script included here,
which takes care of setting the appropriate IP and port to listen on, as well
as setting up the FIFO to where messages are directed.  "listener_image_stop"
will seach for the correct process actually running the listener, and will do
the appropriate clean-up.

The "start_AFNI" script does exactly what its names says, starts up AFNI. But
it does a few other useful things.  It will create a location/folder (specified
by the user) from which AFNI will be launched, and real-time data for that
session written to.  The script will also set a few environmental variable to
set and control AFNI's behavior while it is running.  The script also launches
AFNI in "real-time" mode, so it is ready to receive data via it's real-time
plugin.



## Potential sources of information for the system for future functionality

- Mount operational directory on the scanner's console PC on a Linux PC (via a
Samba export), and parse the files in that directory to determine if any info
about the scanner's state is present there.  This directory is already exported
to the scanner's reconstruction computer, most likely in read-write mode, to
facilitate scanner operation.  For the functionality desired here, a read-only
export should suffice.

